 Application;  When do I apply for admission? Application deadlines can be found on our dates page. What courses should I complete in order to transfer? Prerequisite course requirements for each program of study are indicated in our Transfer Handbook. What GPA is needed to transfer? Colleges and programs of study have varying minimum GPA requirements from 2.25 to 4.0. Refer to our transfer GPA guidelines for more information. Can I list a second-choice major on my transfer application? Yes, all transfer students can list a second-choice major on their application. We encourage you to look at our Transfer Handbook to determine a logical second-choice major that fits your academic goals. Majors unavailable as a second choice include all Gies Business majors, Computer Science (including all Computer Science + X majors), Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and all Music majors except Music BA, which does not require an audition. Do I need to submit a high school transcript? Yes, you must submit an official, final high school transcript or an official copy of your high school equivalency exam results to verify graduation. High school performance will only be reviewed if you have fewer than 30 graded transferable semester hours at the time of application. Coursework on your high school transcript may apply to the language other than English requirement. Are ACT or SAT I scores required? High school performance and ACT or SAT I scores will be reviewed if you’re applying with less than 30 graded transferable college credit hours at the time of application. Do I need to take the TOEFL or IELTS? English proficiency requirements can be found on our admissions process page. I’m currently an international student on visa. However, I’ll have permanent resident alien status at the beginning of the term. What will my residency be listed as on the application? Until you receive your green card, we'll consider you an international applicant. When you receive your green card, send us a copy, and we’ll change your status within our system. Read more about residency. As an international student, do I need to submit financial verification papers with my application? No, we’ll only request financial documents and official transcripts if you’re admitted to the university and choose to attend. How does my application fee affect my application status? Your application will be considered incomplete and won’t be processed until we receive your application fee or an authorized fee waiver. If you pay the fee at the time of your application submission, we strongly encourage payment by credit card. If you choose to pay later, you can pay by credit card through your status page in myIllini. When will I hear a decision after submitting my application? If you apply for spring entry, you’ll be notified of a decision by mid-December. If you apply for fall entry, you’ll be notified of a decision by mid-April. If you're applying for fall or summer admission, we strongly recommend applying after you complete your fall courses so those grades can be included in your admission review. Credit  When do I find out what classes will transfer? We’ll evaluate your classes after you submit your application and application fee. Students attending 2-year and some 4-year institutions in Illinois may work with an advisor at their current institution. To review courses for transferability, refer to Transferology. What’s your policy on transferability of the Illinois Articulation Initiative (IAI) General Education courses? We accept the IAI General Education Core on a course-by-course basis, applying courses completed in the core to campus general education requirements. Some programs of study require specific general education courses. Please consult the Transfer Handbook for information on courses required.
 General Application;  How do I apply? Freshman applicants can choose to apply to UIUC in one of two ways: myIllini or Coalition. We don't give preference based on your application type. Only one freshman application is permitted per applicant, and the first submitted application is considered official. When do I apply? Application deadlines can be found on our dates page. What’s the early action filing period? The early action filing period is explained on our dates page. Do you accept letters of recommendation or other additional materials? No, we don’t accept letter of recommendation or other unsolicited materials. An audition, portfolio, or interview may be required for Fine and Applied Arts applicants. See our application process for more details. How does my application fee affect my application status? We won’t consider your application complete and won’t process it until we receive an application fee or an authorized fee waiver submitted by your high school counselor. If you submit the fee when you submit your application, we strongly encourage you to pay by credit card. If you choose to pay later, you can pay by credit card through your status page in myIllini. Can I add activities or honors to my application after I submit it? No, we won't consider additional activities or honors once the application is submitted. What percentage of undergraduates are from out of state? Approximately 26% of our incoming freshmen are nonresidents. Out-of-state students are evaluated against the same criteria used for in-state students. I'm an international applicant. Is there a separate application for me? No, there is not a separate application or process for international applicants. I’m currently an international student on visa. However, I’ll have lawful permanent resident status at the beginning of the term. What will my residency be listed as on the application? Until you receive your green card, we'll consider you an international applicant. When you receive your green card, send us a copy, and we’ll change your status within our system. Read more about residency. As an international student, do I need to submit financial verification papers with my application? No, we’ll only request financial documents and official transcripts if you’re admitted to the university and choose to attend. Self-Reported Courses   What does it mean to self-report my courses? On the application for admission, you’ll be asked to enter your courses and grades for years 9 to 11 as they appear on your official high school transcript. You’ll also be asked to enter your courses in progress for year 12. How do I enter my courses and grades? You must have your high school transcript with you when filling out the Courses section, entering all information exactly as it appears on your document. All semester, trimester, or quarter grades must be listed in the Courses section. Don’t average grades. If you’re admitted and plan to enroll, your final, official transcript must match the information in the Courses section. If it doesn’t, your admission offer will be rescinded. Can I make changes to my self-reported courses once they’ve been submitted? Prior to submitting the application, you may save your progress and return to complete it or make changes to it. You can’t edit your application once it's submitted, so review your entries carefully before doing so. If you have an update to your senior year schedule or find an error after submitting your application, complete our Course Change Form in myIllini. When do I submit my final transcripts? If you’re admitted and decide to enroll at UIUC, you’ll be required to submit final, official high school transcripts once you graduate. Don’t send official transcripts at the time of application or after mid-year grades are received. Do I need to include 9th grade if it was completed at a junior high or middle school? Yes, all courses taken in 9th grade must be reported regardless of where they were taken. Do I need to include advanced courses and grades from 7th and 8th grade? Advanced courses taken in 7th and 8th grade in mathematics or a language other than English may count toward your subject pattern requirement. myIllini: To list them, select "Pre-High School" in the term field. Coalition: To list them, enter them as 9th grade courses. What if my high school provides a decile instead of a class rank? myIllini: Select "No" for the class rank question and do not report the decile. Coalition: Select "Deciles" for the rank question and enter your decile in the Class Rank box. Am I able to include college courses or dual credit courses I have taken while in high school? Yes, the application gives you the opportunity to self-report any college courses or dual credit courses you’ve taken prior to enrolling at UIUC. I attended multiple high schools. How do I list my grades? If you attended multiple U.S. high schools and your current high school transcript lists the courses and grades from your previous high school, you can use your current high school’s transcript to complete the Courses section. You’ll need to list all high schools attended separately. If your current high school doesn’t list the courses and grades from your previous high school, use your previous high school’s transcript to complete the Courses section for the years you attended that school. If you’ve transferred from an international high school to a U.S. high school, enter all international coursework as it appears on your international transcript or grade report. If you decide to enroll at UIUC, you’ll need to send official transcripts from all international schools you’ve attended in addition to your current U.S. high school transcript. How do I enter my external exam results (O-Levels, Indian Standard X exams, I/GCSE, HKDSE, etc.)? You must have your external exam results with you when self-reporting your scores, entering all information as it appears on your document. If you're admitted and plan to enroll, your final, official exam results must match the information you reported. If they don't, your admission offer will be rescinded. Create a high school record for the school or schools you attended while preparing for the exam. You don't need to create high school records for the years in which exams weren't taken; those courses and grades don't need to be reported. myIllini: In the Education section, answer "Yes" to the education system question of "Are you or have you been enrolled in an educational system which includes externally administered exams?" In the Courses section, check the box for "I only have international exam results during this period." In the Other Academic Information section, enter all external exams you've taken and the scores you've received. Also enter all exams you plan to take and check the radio button for "Results Not Received Yet." If you’re admitted and plan to enroll, your final, official exam results must match the information you reported. If they don't, your admission offer will be rescinded. Examples: India, Singapore, Malaysia Coalition: In the High School Information section, check the box stating "This is an exam-based school." Then answer the two questions below. In the 9-11 Grade Coursework section, enter all external exams you've taken and the scores you've received for the appropriate years. In the 12 Grade Coursework section, enter the exams you plan to take and select "No Grade to Report." Example: India    What should I do if my high school lists my grades numerically? If your transcript includes a numerical to letter grading scale: myIllini: Select the radio button for "A-F grades or numerical grades with a grading scale listed on the transcript" and enter the grading scale conversion. In the courses section, enter the corresponding letter grades. Coalition: Select the radio button for "Letter" and the corresponding letter grades. If your transcript doesn’t include a numerical to letter grading scale: myIllini: Select the radio button for "Other" and enter the grading scale. In the courses section, enter your numerical grades. Coalition: Select the radio button for "Numbers." Enter the highest and lowest grade possible along with the grades you received. What should I do if my high school doesn’t follow an A-F or a numerical grading scale? Select "Other" as your type of grading scale and enter a grading scale/conversion, even if one does not appear on your transcript. Enter your grades exactly as they appear on your transcript. My high school follows a block schedule. How do I report this? Report your courses as year-long. It's true that the courses are only a semester long, but they're worth a year of work. myIllini: Select "Yes" to the block scheduling question on the Education page of the application. Coalition: Check the box indicating your school using block scheduling on the Coursework page. What if I’ve taken a high school equivalency exam (ex. GED) or don’t plan on earning a high school diploma? If you took a high school equivalency exam and completed some high school coursework, include all completed high school coursework in the Courses section. You’ll need to send a copy of your high school equivalency exam to our office. If you took a high school equivalency exam and didn’t complete any high school coursework, contact our office to explain your situation and receive more details. You’ll need to send a copy of your high school equivalency exam to our office. Test Optional  Why is UIUC making the ACT and SAT exams optional? Current high school seniors have had limited opportunities since spring 2020 to take or retake the ACT or SAT due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Is the ACT or SAT optional for all freshman applicants? Yes, ACT/SAT scores are optional for all freshman applicants, including international students, home-schooled students, and recruited student-athletes. Recruited student-athletes are still required to satisfy all initial eligibility requirements set forth by the NCAA Eligibility Center. How do I decide if I should report ACT/SAT scores? We encourage you to report your scores if you feel they accurately represent your ability. Can I change my test-optional selection after I've submitted the application? It is unlikely this is possible, but please contact our office to discuss your situation. How do I let UIUC know if I will be reporting my ACT/SAT scores? If you choose to report your scores, you will be asked to self-report them on the application. You may also have official scores sent directly. I’ve already sent my official ACT/SAT to UIUC but would like to be reviewed without my scores. Will you use my previously sent official scores? Any scores that were previously sent will not be added to your application file. Are all majors at UIUC test optional? Yes, ACT/SAT scores are not required to apply to any major. Do I need to report a TOEFL/IELTS score? If you report ACT/SAT scores and have not completed at least three full years of secondary education in an approved country where English is the primary language,* you are strongly encouraged to submit TOEFL/IELTS scores regardless of citizenship or residency. If you do not report ACT/SAT scores and have not completed at least three full years of secondary education in an approved country where English is the primary language,* you are required to submit TOEFL/IELTS scores regardless of citizenship or residency. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we’ve extended our testing options to also accept the TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IETLS Indicator. *Approved countries include Australia, Canada (excluding Quebec), certain Caribbean countries, Ireland, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States (excluding Puerto Rico). How will my application be reviewed if I do not report ACT/SAT scores? We will use a holistic review of your admissions application with or without an ACT or SAT. If I do not report ACT/SAT scores, will I be considered for merit-based scholarships and honors programs? Test scores are not required to be considered for merit-based scholarships or honors programs. If you do not submit test scores for consideration in the review process, you are not able to add them later for scholarship or honors review. If I do not report ACT/SAT scores, can I send them later for course placement or proficiency? No, if you do not report ACT/SAT scores with the application, we will not accept them later for any enrollment purposes, including course placement or proficiency. If Reporting Test Scores  Should I take the ACT or the SAT I? We accept both exams, and no preference is given to either. Do you accept the SAT Subject Tests? No, the SAT Subject Tests aren't part of our review process and won't be loaded with your application. What test scores do I need to be admitted? You don't need a set score to be admitted. Admission decisions are based on a variety of factors. Read more on how we review. Do official scores need to be sent to complete my application? No, we'll review your application based on the test scores you report (ACT, SAT I, TOEFL, and IELTS). If you enroll at UIUC, you'll be required to submit official scores for all scores you reported. If self-reported test scores can be used to review my application, should I still have my scores sent when I take an exam? Yes, since you can send your scores to four schools for free when you take a test, take advantage of that now. If you are admitted and accept the offer, you'll have to pay to send them later. I took multiple exams. Which scores should I report on the application? Report the highest SAT total or ACT composite score you earned, along with the highest sub-scores you earned in each category, regardless of test date. Don’t recalculate a new total or composite. I had my official scores sent to UIUC already. Do I still need to self-report them on the application? Yes, you still need to complete the self-reported test score section of the application. Do I need to wait to apply until I have all of my scores? If you have scores from a previous test, report those when you apply. If you receive higher scores before a decision is made on your application, you can have those sent or submit the Test Score Change Form to add them to your application. If you don't have any scores yet, you can still submit your application by listing your future test date on the application. However, your application will remain incomplete until we either receive official scores or you submit the Test Score Change Form in myIllini with scores you've earned. I submitted my application but then received higher test scores. I don't have a final decision yet. How do I update my application with the new scores? You may have the official scores sent to our office, or you may submit the Test Score Change Form found in myIllini. Second-Choice Major  Should I select a second-choice major within the application? Yes, we strongly recommend it, especially if you're applying into one of our more competitive programs such as Engineering or Business. If you're not admissible to your first choice, you'll be reviewed for your second choice. If you're not admissible to either one, you'll be considered for all other avenues of admission. If you're admitted into your second choice or another program, you're considered wait listed for your first choice. This means that if space later opens up, we'll consider you again. What happens if I don't select a second-choice major? If you don't select a second choice, you'll only be considered for your first choice. This option is only appropriate if you're certain you won't attend UIUC unless you're admitted to your first choice. If you don't select a second choice and you're not competitive for your first choice, you'll be wait listed or denied. You won't be considered for any other avenue of admission. Will selecting a second-choice major disadvantage me from my first choice? No, your application will receive a thorough review for your first-choice major. If you're not competitive within that pool, you'll then be reviewed for your second-choice major and all other avenues of admission. Are all majors available as a second choice? No, not all majors are available due to space constraints. Majors unavailable as a second choice include Computer Engineering, Computer Science (including all Computer Science + X majors), Mechanical Engineering, Information Sciences, and all Music majors except Music BA, which doesn't require an audition. How should I go about selecting my second-choice major? Most likely, you'll want to select a second choice that's similar to your first-choice major based on your interests. We suggest keeping an open mind in selecting a second choice and encourage you to research our majors by interest area. You may find majors in other colleges on campus that fit your interests. If you select a specific major as your second choice, you should be interested in pursuing a degree in that field. If you're unsure of a specific major, you can choose our Undeclared program in the Division of General Studies (DGS) as your second choice. I applied to the Undeclared program in DGS. Do I still need to list a second choice? If there's a major you're considering, you should list it as your second choice. If you're exploring, there's no need to list a second-choice major. Is it possible to receive admission offers for both my first and second choice? No. If you're eligible, you'll only be admitted into one of the majors. If you want to declare a double major, you'll need to discuss that with your academic advisor once on campus. Is an additional essay required if I select a second-choice major? Yes, we want to know why you are interested in your second-choice major as well. No additional essay is required if you list Undeclared in DGS as your second choice. Can I use the same essay for both my first and second choice? We recommend you craft separate essays. When evaluating your essays, we're looking for the reason you're interested in the major you selected, whether it's your first choice or your second choice. If you feel that your second choice corresponds with your first choice, it's possible to reuse portions of your first-choice essay. However, we still want to see a true interest and understanding of your second-choice major through your essay. Can I add a second-choice major or change it after submitting my application? Yes, you can perform either task through the Program Change Form, which can be found on your status page in myIllini. Once decisions are released, it's no longer possible to add a second-choice major or change an existing one. Will I receive equal consideration for my second-choice major along with those applicants who chose it as their first choice? Preference will be given to those applicants who listed the major as their first choice, but you'll be given equal consideration with all other applicants who chose the major as a second choice. Due to space limitations, Illinois residents will be given preference for admission into second-choice majors. Historically, non-Illinois residents who have listed the Undeclared program in the Division of General Studies as their second choice haven't been admitted to that program due to space constraints. Home-Schooled  Does the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign admit home school graduates? Yes, we encourage you to apply to the university. Is the university interested in having home schoolers apply? We’re very interested in having talented, well-qualified applicants from a variety of settings. Your academic experiences help bring diversity to our campus. How many home schoolers have you admitted? Approximately 60 to 70 home-schooled students are admitted each year. We don’t set a limit on how many can be admitted. The most qualified students in our applicant pool will be selected for admission. What are your admission requirements for home-schooled applicants? You’re reviewed on an individual basis, similar to all other freshman applicants. See our application process for more information. Do you require a high school equivalency exam (ex. GED)? The Admissions Review Committee and the Office of Admissions reviews each application. If you’re eligible to take a high school equivalency exam, we require you to provide us with the results. If you’re not eligible to take a high school equivalency exam, we continue to look very closely at your other application requirements. The strength of your test scores, type of home school experience, and application essays all go into making this decision. Will you accept a letter of recommendation from a parent if he or she is my primary instructor? No, we don’t accept letters of recommendation. We’ll remove any unsolicited materials, including letters of recommendation, from your file before reviewing your application. What can I do to strengthen my high school preparation? You can augment your home-school experience with some more traditional schooling experiences, such as community or local college coursework or selected courses at a local high school. Taking Advanced Placement exams can confirm that you’re prepared and may also result in earning college credit. Can I compete successfully for academic scholarships? All of our applicants, including home-schooled students, will automatically be considered for any merit-based scholarships. We'll consider your curriculum and grades at your home school and any college coursework you may have taken prior to enrollment. We'll also consider your test scores, involvement, awards, and essay. Review & Notification  Do you consider the competitiveness of my high school? We understand that every school offers different curricula. For this reason, we expect you to take advantage of the most challenging courses available at your particular school, earning strong grades in your courses. We also consider your test scores, essays, and extracurricular involvement when making our final admissions decision. Once I submit my application, how soon will I be notified, and what decisions might I receive? Notification dates are listed on our dates page. You can view our different decisions and what they mean on our decisions page.
 Enrollment;  Can I make a change to my schedule after being admitted? Your admission was, in part, based on your schedule. Therefore, we’ll only approve drops in your schedule for medical reasons or extenuating circumstances. You can change your schedule, but the change must be to a comparable level course (e.g., AP for AP, honors for honors, etc.). Don't make any changes to your schedule unless you've received approval from our office. Any request for a schedule change must be submitted through myIllini. When we review final transcripts, we check final grades as well as schedule changes. An unauthorized schedule change or extreme drop in grades could jeopardize your admission. When will I find out if I’m being offered any scholarships, honors, or need-based aid? Your application for admission is used to determine your eligibility for all merit-based scholarships and honors awarded through us. Information on when these will be awarded can be found on our dates page. You may also submit the Office of Student Financial Aid's supplemental application for merit and need-based scholarships. Need-based aid requires submission of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If you haven’t submitted your FAFSA yet, do so as soon as possible. If you submit it before March 15, you should receive notification via email between mid-March and mid-April. You can also check your financial aid status online. For more information, contact the Office of Student Financial Aid at 217-333-0100. When is the deadline for accepting my offer of admission? You should accept your offer of admission online by May 1 (or within 2 weeks if you receive your Notice of Admission packet after April 15). The sooner you accept your offer of admission, the sooner you can sign up for New Student Registration, submit your housing request, and more. Is an acceptance fee required to accept my offer of admission? Yes, you must submit a $150 nonrefundable acceptance fee when accepting your offer of admission. Your acceptance won’t be official until you submit this fee. You may use a credit or debit card when paying the fee. If you were approved for an application fee waiver, the acceptance fee will be waived. What do I do if I’m unable to claim my NetID? You must accept your admission offer in order to claim your NetID. If you’re having difficulty claiming your NetID, contact Technology Services at 217-244-7000 for further assistance. How do I cancel my admission and housing? You can cancel the offer of admission online or you can email our office requesting to cancel your admission to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The $150 acceptance fee is nonrefundable. If you’ve signed up for housing, you’ll also need to notify our Housing Information Office. Majors  I'm admitted, but I'd like to change my major now. Is this possible? Yes, it's possible, but it's not always in your best interest. Contact our office to discuss your request before submitting our Change Request Form in myIllini. Early Action applicants who submit the form prior to our second notification date will receive a decision then. Any applicant who submits the form after our second notification date will receive a decision in 1 to 2 weeks. If you're denied from the new major, you're not guaranteed admission back into your original major. If you've been awarded scholarships or invited to join an honors program, those awards may be affected as well. If you choose to attend UIUC under the major to which you have been admitted, you’ll be able to speak with your academic advisor about your educational goals during your New Student Registration. You may have to meet certain coursework and GPA requirements before transferring to another program. What does it mean if I wasn't admitted to my first-choice major? Can I eventually transfer to that program once I'm on campus? You were strongly considered for your first choice; however, we simply didn’t have room for all qualified applicants. You’re still considered wait listed for your first choice. If space becomes available in this major later on, we’ll let you know even if you’ve declined your offer. We strongly encourage you to stick with the major you were admitted into after enrolling at UIUC. If you’re interested in transferring to another program, we recommend you work with your academic advisor to learn the requirements and timeline needed to do so. If you were admitted into the Division of General Studies (DGS), you'll work with an advisor to craft a unique schedule and declare a major before your junior year. Can I double major or add a minor? If you’d like to double major or add a minor, you’ll need to speak with your advisor at New Student Registration. He or she will be able to instruct you on how to proceed. Housing  How do I apply for University Housing, and how are residence hall assignments made? Visit Housing's website to learn how to apply. We encourage you to meet our priority deadline of May 15. If we receive your contract by this date, we'll assign you a time slot. When your time slot arrives, you'll choose a space from available rooms across campus, as well as a meal plan. If you submit your contract after May 15, we'll select a room and roommate for you based on the preferences you provide. When will I find out the hall I’ve been assigned to and my roommate’s contact information? You’ll receive a notice in late June that confirms your room selection and provides the name of your roommate. Test Scores, Transcripts & Credit  Why do you require official scores and transcripts to be sent? Your admission decision is contingent on successful completion of any courses in progress or that you planned to take prior to entry to UIUC as well as the accurate self-reporting of your test scores, courses, and grades. What scores do I need to send? Your admission decision is contingent on the accurate self-reporting of your test scores. If you choose to enroll at UIUC, you need to send official scores of all scores you reported on your application. I sent my official scores when I took the test, do I need to resend them? No, they don't need to be resent, but be sure to check your Admitted Checklist to confirm they are received. What is the deadline to send my official test scores and transcripts? Fall enrollees should have official final high school transcripts and official test scores sent to us by July 1. Summer enrollees should have transcripts showing 9 through 11 grades sent to us by June 1 and their final transcript sent to us as soon as senior grades are posted. When do you need my transcripts for college courses I took in high school? After completing all college courses, send us the official transcripts directly from your college. Your credit hours and grades will be added to your UIUC record. Where do I send my Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) credit? AP test scores must be sent from CollegeBoard electronically and should be sent to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. IB test scores must be sent directly to Measurement and Evaluation: Room 247 Armory, MC-528 505 East Armory Avenue, Champaign, IL 61820. It may be helpful for you to bring a copy of your AP or IB test scores to New Student Registration. This will let academic advisors know what credits you’ve earned. Will I have an opportunity to take a proficiency test to earn college credit? Yes, proficiency tests are offered in most subject areas. You must sign up for the proficiency exam through the specific academic department. Proficiency tests are usually offered a few times each semester. The first opportunity for you to take a proficiency test will be during the first week of class. Tuition  When will I receive the first tuition bill for the fall semester? Your first tuition bill will arrive electronically to your university email address in September. Any financial aid is generally dispersed the week before the start of classes. For information regarding billing, payment due dates, and payment options, visit the University Bursar's website. Does UIUC offer a payment plan for tuition and fee costs? We provide an optional payment plan that allows you to spread payment of anticipated tuition, mandatory fees, room, and board expenses. I currently live out of state. When am I eligible for in-state tuition? We use your parents’ residence to determine residency. If your parent or parents move to Illinois, you can become a resident at the beginning of the next term following the move. If you’re legally emancipated from your parents or independent, you must reside in the state of Illinois for 1 year for non-educational purposes before being eligible for in-state tuition.
 Enrollment;  Can I make a change to my schedule after being admitted? Your admission was, in part, based on your schedule. Dropping any courses listed as a requirement for admission to your major won’t be approved. Any request for a schedule change must be submitted via the Course Change Form through myIllini. When we review final transcripts, we check final grades as well as schedule changes. An unauthorized schedule change or drop in grades could jeopardize your admission. When will I find out if I’m being offered any scholarships, honors, or need-based aid? Your application for admission is used to determine your eligibility for all merit-based scholarships and honors programs. You’ll be contacted about these as they're awarded. You may also submit the Office of Student Financial Aid's supplemental application for merit- and need-based scholarships. Need-based aid requires submission of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If you haven’t submitted your FAFSA yet, do so as soon as possible. If you submit it before March 15, you should receive notification of your financial aid package's availability via email between mid-March and mid-April. You can also check your financial aid status online. For more information, contact the Office of Student Financial Aid at 217-333-0100. When is the deadline for accepting my offer of admission? If you applied for fall admission, you should accept your offer online by May 1 (or within 2 weeks if you receive your Notice of Admission packet after April 15). If you applied for spring admission, you should accept your offer online within 2 weeks of receiving your notice of admission. The sooner you accept your offer of admission, the sooner you can sign up for registration, submit your housing request, and more. Is an acceptance fee required to accept my offer of admission? Yes, you must submit a $150 nonrefundable acceptance fee when accepting your offer of admission. Your acceptance won’t be official until you submit this fee. You may use a credit or debit card when paying the fee. If you were approved for an application fee waiver, the acceptance fee will be waived. What do I do if I’m unable to claim my NetID? You must be admitted in order to claim your NetID. If you’re having difficulty claiming your NetID, contact Technology Services at 217-244-7000 for further assistance. How do I cancel my admission and housing? You can cancel your admission online by declining your offer in your myIllini account, or you can contact us directly. The $150 acceptance fee is nonrefundable. If you’ve signed up for housing, you’ll also need to notify that department. Majors  I'm admitted, but I'd like to change my major now. Is this possible? If you’d like to change your major, submit our Program/Term Change Form within myIllini. We encourage you to review the Transfer Handbook for minimum admissions requirements and speak with an admissions counselor before submitting this form to see if you have a good chance of being admitted to your requested program. If you choose to attend UIUC under the major to which you've been admitted, you’ll be able to speak with your academic advisor about your educational goals during registration. You may have to meet certain coursework and GPA requirements before transferring to another program. It is also important to understand that you will not be able to change to any major in The Grainger College of Engineering or the Gies College of Business after enrolling on campus. What does it mean to be admitted into an alternate major? Can I eventually enter my first-choice major? Students with an alternative offer were strongly considered for their first choice; however, we simply didn’t have room for all qualified applicants. If you’re interested in transferring to another program after enrolling at UIUC, we recommend that you work with your academic advisor to learn the requirements and timeline needed to eventually do so. It is also important to understand that you will not be able to change to any major in The Grainger College of Engineering or Gies College of Business after enrolling on campus. More information is included within your Notice of Admission letter. Can I double major or add a minor? If you’d like to double major or add a minor, you’ll need to speak with your advisor at registration. They will be able to instruct you on how to proceed. Housing  How do I obtain transfer housing information? Transfer students can choose to live within any of our university housing units, including one of our Transfer Communities. Other options include Graduate Housing (open to students who are at least 20 years old), family housing, and university-run apartments. For more information, visit the University Housing website or call 217-333-7111. Private Certified Housing is also an option for new students. As a transfer student, do I have to live on campus? You may have the option to live in off-campus housing, but you should confirm with University Housing at 217-333-7111 before signing a lease. If you are eligible to live off campus, Off-Campus Community Living has many resources for students interested in alternative housing. How do I sign up for University Housing, and how are residence hall assignments made? University Housing uses a priority deadline to make hall and room assignments. We encourage you to meet the priority deadline of May 15 for fall enrollment. All contracts received by May 15 will be placed in random order, and assignments will be made in that order. Contracts received after the priority deadline will be placed in the order they’re received. When will I find out the hall I’ve been assigned to and my roommate’s contact information? You’ll be notified in June as to which hall you’ve been assigned and will find out your roommate’s information in July for fall enrollment. Transcripts & Credit  Do I need to send my final transcripts? Yes. Your admission decision is contingent on successful completion of any courses in progress or that you planned to take prior to entry to UIUC. For fall enrollment, you should have your final college transcripts sent to our office by June 15. If you’re taking summer courses, the final transcript needs to be sent as soon as your summer grades are finalized. For spring enrollment, final college transcripts should be submitted to our office as soon as fall grades are posted. All transcripts must be sent directly from the institution at which the courses were taken. Where can I find out how my classes transferred? You may view your Transfer Evaluation Report within myIllini. Where do I send my Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) credit? AP test scores must be sent from CollegeBoard electronically and should be sent to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. IB test scores must be sent directly to Measurement and Evaluation: Room 247 Armory, MC-528, 505 East Armory Avenue, Champaign, IL 61820. We provide credit equivalencies for both AP and IB exams. It may be helpful for you to bring a copy of your test scores to registration. This will let academic advisors know what credits you’ve earned. Will I have an opportunity to take a proficiency test to earn college credit? Yes, proficiency tests are offered in most subject areas. You must sign up for the proficiency exam through the specific academic department. Proficiency tests are usually offered a few times each semester. The first opportunity for you to take a proficiency test will be during the first week of class. Tuition  When will I receive the first tuition bill for the fall semester? Your first tuition bill will arrive electronically to your university email address in September. Any financial aid is generally disbursed the week before the start of classes. For information regarding billing, payment due dates, and payment options, visit the University Bursar's website. Does UIUC offer a payment plan for tuition and fee costs? We provide an optional payment plan that allows you to spread payment of anticipated tuition, mandatory fees, room, and board expenses. I currently live out of state. When am I eligible for in-state tuition? We use your parents’ residence to determine residency. If your parent or parents move to Illinois, you can become a resident at the beginning of the next term following the move. If you’re legally emancipated from your parents or independent, you must reside in the state of Illinois for 1 year for non-educational purposes before being eligible for in-state tuition.
 Questions;  How can I get more information about the visa process? You can read more about this process on our student visa page. I'm currently attending a U.S. school on a visa. Do I need to submit the I-20 application? If you are currently studying on a J-1 or F-1 visa, yes, you will need to submit an I-20 application. You can do so through your myIllini account. If you are on a visa type other than an F-1 or J-1, contact our office so we can advise you accordingly. When should I arrive on campus? You must arrive on campus by the start date listed on your I-20 or DS-2019. You can also enter the U.S. up to 30 days before your program start date. Official check-in dates and instructions can be found on the International Student Scholar Services website. Do you have programs over the summer to help me improve my English? Our Intensive English Institute can provide you with instruction to improve your English language skills in an academic setting. You can learn more about the program and its cost by visiting their website. I'm an admitted freshman. What documents do I need to submit to verify my courses and grades? You must provide official academic records for all years of school you reported in the application, including official copies of all school certificates and external exam results. You can view the documents for your country on our required documents page.
 Preparation;  Am I required to participate in New Student Registration? Yes, registration is mandatory. All new, degree-seeking undergraduate students entering in summer or fall must participate in a New Student Registration session. What do I need to do before attending New Student Registration? You'll need to complete any required placement tests and pre-registration homework at least 2 weeks before your registration day. You can find information on homework and placement tests on your Admitted Student Checklist in myIllini. How long does New Student Registration last? New Student Registration will vary depending on College and/or Major. You will learn more from your academic advisor prior to your online New Student Registration date. Scheduling  How can I reschedule my registration day? Although we don’t encourage you to change your registration day, you can reschedule using the same process you did when originally signing up. Once you give up your spot on your original day, it will become open for another student to take. You can’t hold reservations for multiple days. I’m not able to participate in any of the available days for my program. What should I do? There are enough program dates and capacity to accommodate all new freshmen and transfer students in all majors. However, if you’re unable to participate in any of the available days listed, fill out our Conflict Form to explain your situation. Can I participate on a day that I didn’t register for beforehand? No, our staff and academic advisors prepare specifically for the students who have signed up each day. Since we have limited advising capacities and academic departments available on specific days, we won’t be able to accommodate last-minute changes, and you’ll have to sign up for a different date. Courses  I won’t receive my AP or IB results before New Student Registration. How will I know what courses to register for? By completing your college homework and working with your advisor on your registration day, you’ll be able to predict your AP or IB test results. We also have required placement tests that will help determine your placement in the absence of AP results. If you need to adjust your schedule after receiving official AP results, you can do so by consulting with an academic advisor after arriving on campus in the fall. Will course choices be limited because they fill up early? Current students register before new students, so some popular courses or times may be full. However, departments typically hold seats for new students, which are released throughout the summer, so there will be course availability regardless of your registration day. While it’s probably not realistic to get every course at every time you’d prefer, your academic advisor will work with you to make sure your schedule meets your educational goals and needs.
 Questions;  How do I know which major I'm wait listed for? If your decision is "Offered Wait List," we're offering you the wait list for your first-choice major. If your decision is "Offered Campus Wait List," we weren't able to place you on the wait list for your first-choice major. Instead, we're offering you the wait list for your second-choice major, the Division of General Studies, and alternate majors related to your academic interest. You may be offered admission to one of these options depending on where space becomes available. How many people are on the wait list? Each year, around 2,000 students are placed on the wait list. Depending on space availability, we may offer wait-listed students admission. Some years we’re able to admit hundreds of students from the wait list, while some years we can’t admit any. Can I improve my chances if I send additional information to support my application or come to campus for an interview? No, additional materials such as letters of recommendation and senior year grades won’t be considered. Only the application materials that were reviewed initially will be used in any wait-list decisions. Interviews aren’t part of our admissions process. If I accept the wait-list offer, when will I hear a final admission decision? If you wish to be on our wait list, you need to accept your wait-list offer within myIllini by May 1. We’ll notify you of your admission decision by late June. If you’re admitted, you’ll then be sent a complete admissions packet. What’s the process for selecting applicants from the wait list? If any openings become available for the college to which you applied, the admissions review committee will review your application. Applicants aren’t ranked within the wait list. Will housing still be available? Illinois values the residential college experience, and housing is guaranteed for all freshman students, including those selected for admission from the wait list. You’ll have a place to live in University Housing. Will I still be eligible for financial aid? You should go ahead and file financial aid paperwork for the school you expect to attend. If you’re selected for admission and didn’t initially list Illinois as one of the schools to receive your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) report, you can then have it transferred to Illinois. If I'm offered admission, will I be able to complete placement testing and attend New Student Registration? Yes, information about New Student Registration will be sent with your admissions packet, and information on placement testing will be available online. Should I accept admission at another school? What if I have to submit an enrollment deposit? Yes, you should accept admission to another institution by May 1, as we can’t guarantee that any students from the wait list will be offered admission. If this institution requires an enrollment deposit, you’ll also need to send it. If you’re offered admission and choose to attend Illinois, you may lose this enrollment deposit. Check with the other institution about its refund policy. If I’m not offered admission, can I apply again as a transfer student? Yes, applicants who aren’t offered admission are eligible to apply as transfer students in a future year. When reviewing applicants with only 1 year of college work, we focus primarily on high school grades, test scores, and activities. When you’ve attended college full-time for 2 years, the strength of the college program and your academic achievement at the college level are given primary consideration. Learn more about our transfer review process. What should I do now? First, focus on choosing the best fit for you of the universities that have offered you admission. Wait lists are uncertain, so it’s best to ensure your happiness no matter the outcome. If you’re on our wait list, that means we really like you and you don’t need to improve your application. You should, however, continue to get good grades your senior year. If you’re still interested in attending Illinois, be patient. It may take some time, but you’ll receive wait-list news by the end of June.
 Decisions;  What does being denied mean? It means that you haven’t been selected for admission to the University of Illinois. What does "Deny—Failed Special Requirement" mean? It means that you didn’t meet audition or portfolio requirements for admission. If you’d like more information about the results of your audition or portfolio review, contact the department to which you applied directly. I wasn’t selected for my first-choice major. Can’t I be considered for other majors? If you listed a second-choice major on the application, you were considered for your first-choice major and your second-choice major, as well as related majors and the Division of General Studies. I didn't select a second-choice major, but now I'd like to be considered for one. What can I do? First, contact our office to discuss your individual situation. You may then submit the Admission Appeal Form in myIllini to be considered for a new major. I was denied because my high school grades and test scores weren’t competitive for admission. What are my options? You should call our office to discuss your individual application and options based on your academic and career goals. Can I reapply? You can’t submit a new application for the term to which you were denied. You must wait to reapply for the next admission term. What other paths are there to Illinois? One option is to apply to Illinois as a transfer student. We also offer a variety of Pathway programs in which you'll begin your undergraduate experience at a partner community college before transferring to Illinois. Appeals  Can I appeal my decision? Yes, you can submit the Admission Appeal Form in myIllini. Contact our office prior to submitting the form to discuss your options. An appeal should only be filed if new and compelling information is available or if you'd like to be considered for a program you didn't list as your first or second choice on the application. We won’t consider 7th semester grades. New test scores will only be considered if they are received before regular decisions are posted. I submitted an appeal. When will I find out if I’ve been reconsidered? No decisions will be made before March 1. After submitting your appeal, allow 2 to 4 weeks for a decision to be made. Once it has, your status will be updated in myIllini. The deadline to submit an appeal is April 15.
 Decisions;  How can I obtain more specific information about my denial decision? An admissions counselor would be happy to provide more information regarding the admission decision. Contact us at 217-333-0302 and ask to speak with a counselor. I was denied because my high school grades and test scores weren’t competitive for admission. What are my options? We encourage you to reapply once you have 30 graded transferable hours at your institution. Please refer to our Transfer Handbook for a list of transfer admission prerequisites. Appealing once your current semester grades have been finalized may also be an option. Please contact our office to see if this makes sense for you. What does "Denied—Missing Required Courses" mean? This means you’re missing courses required for admission to your selected major. You have the option of taking the required missing courses before the term of enrollment or requesting to be considered for your second-choice major. Check your status page in myIllini for additional information regarding this decision. I was denied because my application was incomplete. Can I still complete it? Depending on your program of study, this may be possible. If you’re interested in completing your application, contact us at 217-333-0302 for more information. Can I reapply for the same term? No, you can’t submit a new application for the term to which you were denied. You must wait to reapply for the next available admission term. Please review our open and closed majors to see if your desired program is available in the next term. Appeals  Can I appeal my decision? Yes. You can submit the Decision Appeal Form in myIllini to be considered for your original major or a new major. We encourage you to speak with an admissions counselor regarding your intent to appeal before submitting the Decision Appeal Form. Contact an admission counselor at 217-333-0302 for more information. I submitted an appeal. When will I find out if I’ve been reconsidered? We’ll notify you of your decision 2 to 4 weeks after your appeal has been submitted. The deadline to appeal is December 20 for spring and June 1 for summer and fall. Your decision will be posted within myIllini.
 Policies;  What is Advanced Placement? The Advanced Placement (AP) Program is a compilation of 38 individual courses, such as English Literature and Statistics, that were designed by high school teachers and college instructors and that are taught in high schools around the country. According to the College Board, which developed the AP Program, AP "enables students to pursue college-level studies while still in high school." Every May high school students can choose to take one or more standardized AP exams, which are graded by the College Board. AP test results are then reported on a scale of 1 to 5, where  1 means no recommendation, 2 means possibly qualified, 3 means qualified, 4 means well qualified, and 5 means extremely well qualified. How does Illinois determine AP credit policies? Test-based credit policies for the AP program are reviewed by campus faculty on an annual basis. Every fall the coordinator of new student placement and proficiency testing contacts the academic departments to inform them of any changes in AP curricula, exams, and scoring procedures. Faculty then review this material, comparing it to their courses’ content, the tasks their students engage in, and the level of mastery their students must demonstrate to earn passing grades in these courses. They then recommend credit policies for the next academic year, which are reviewed by the college in which the department is housed. In setting AP credit policies, the goal is always to ensure to the best of our ability that students earning test-based credit for a course are as well-prepared to succeed in higher-level courses as students who actually took that course on our campus. What are your current AP policies? Visit our AP page to view the AP placement and proficiency credit policies. Legislation  What does the Illinois law—HB 3428, The College and Career Success for All Students Act—say, in plain English? This law states that all public universities and all public community colleges in the state of Illinois must begin awarding college credit to students entering the university in the 2016-2017 academic year or later for scores of 3, 4, and 5 on every AP exam. The law does not affect policies for any other standardized exam. When did the AP legislation changes go into effect? The policy went into effect for all new students enrolling for the first time during the 2016-2017 academic year. Can students who enrolled before the 2016-2017 academic year receive credit for scores of 3? No. The law went into effect for the 2016-2017 academic year. As has been our campus practice for many years, the amount of AP credit that currently enrolled students earned when they first enrolled at Illinois will neither be added to nor taken away when new policies go into effect. Credit  What's the difference between elective credit, General Education (Gen Ed) credit, and major credit? The courses that college students take fall into 3 broad categories that sometimes overlap: 1. Courses that are required for their major. These courses are typically within the same field; for example, a computer science major will take computer science courses. 2. Courses that fulfill the university's Gen Ed requirements. Such courses serve to ensure that undergraduates get a well-rounded education by studying a well-balanced array of subjects. At Illinois, we have 7 Gen Ed areas:  Quantitative reasoning (e.g., math) Composition (i.e., critical thinking and writing) Social and Behavioral Sciences (e.g., anthropology, political science) Natural Sciences and Technology (e.g., chemistry, biology) Cultural Studies: Western/Comparative (e.g., European history) Cultural Studies: Non-Western/U.S. Minority (e.g., African studies) Language Other Than English (formerly known as "foreign language")  3. Courses that are electives. Electives allow a student to explore subjects simply for the pleasure of being exposed to ideas and learning something different from what is taught in their major or Gen Ed courses. These include any courses that count toward the minimum number of hours required for graduation that do not fall into (1) or (2). For the purposes of the AP legislation discussion, major and Gen Ed credit awarded on the basis of an AP test score will correspond to an actual course when the content of the AP course and the student’s mastery of that material corresponds closely to the content of a course taught on this campus. For example, an AP Psychology score of 5 earns credit for our PSYC 100 course. In contrast, elective credit awarded on the basis of an AP test score will typically indicate that the content of the AP course does not correspond to the content of a specific course taught on this campus. For example, scores of 3, 4, and 5 on the AP Seminar exam will earn 3 hours of elective credit. Is it better for me to accept my AP credit or take the actual course? Course credit earned from AP exams will be posted to your official academic record. Whether you choose to take the course anyway will very much depend on your academic strengths, weaknesses, and goals. You should consider the requirements of your current program as well as your future plans. For example, students who think they might go on to graduate school need to be aware that many professional (e.g., medical) and graduate schools will not accept test-based credit. Instead, they require evidence that you successfully completed the actual course at a college or university in order to be considered for admission to a graduate program (e.g., "MCB 150" on your transcript and not "Test-Based Credit for MCB 150"). New students at Illinois can discuss this with their academic advisors when registering for first-semester classes. What if a student at another institution earns credit for a test score that Illinois doesn’t accept? Or what if the other institution awards credit for a specific course and this campus does not? If the student in either of these scenarios transfers to Illinois, will the course credit transfer too? Possibly. A student presenting test-based credit may be granted transfer credit on our campus if he or she has successfully completed  at least 12 graded semester hours of transferable college-level classroom coursework from the institution or a single campus in a multi-campus institution that awarded the test credit, and advanced transferable classroom coursework in the same subject area as the test credit at the same institution awarding the credit. If the test-based credit does not meet both of these criteria, the student may submit the original AP scores to Illinois for evaluation.
 Questions;  I’m not an Illinois resident. How can I become a resident for tuition purposes? If you’re a dependent, your family must live in or move to Illinois. The in-state tuition rate would begin at the start of the next term. If you’re not a dependent, you must live in Illinois for 1 full year for non-educational purposes. This means that you can’t attend school during the year you’re establishing residency. What if my parents are divorced and one parent lives in Illinois? As long as 1 parent is a bona fide resident of Illinois, you’ll pay in-state tuition. This is true even if the parent living outside of Illinois is actually your main source of financial support. What if my parents move out of Illinois? Once you’re admitted as a resident student, you’ll continue to qualify for in-state tuition provided you maintain continuous enrollment for the fall and spring terms and live in Illinois during that time. Returning to your parents’ home outside of Illinois for the summer only won’t jeopardize your in-state tuition. What if my parents own property in Illinois but don’t live in Illinois? You’re not eligible for in-state tuition. What if I don’t currently live in Illinois, but my parents have maintained residency in Illinois while in the U.S. military? If your parents have maintained residency in Illinois by being the home of record while serving in the military, you may qualify for in-state tuition. You’ll need to send the DD214 or official military orders to the Office of the Registrar. What if I’ll be enrolling with an F-1 Visa? You’re not eligible for in-state tuition. What if I’m an international student who has applied for permanent resident status in the United States? As long as you hold a temporary visa, you don’t qualify for in-state tuition. However, when you receive federal notification that your status for permanent residency has been approved, you may start the period of establishment of residency for in-state tuition. Notification that your application has been received isn’t sufficient. What if I’m an asylee, parolee, or refugee, or have other extenuating circumstances? If you can answer "Yes" to the following questions, you may be eligible for in-state tuition. You’ll need to submit our Residency Affidavit:  Did you reside with your parents while attending a public or private high school in Illinois? Did you or will you graduate from a public or private high school in Illinois? Did you or will you attend school in Illinois for at least 3 years as of the date you graduated from high school or received the equivalent of a high school diploma? If you’re not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States, will you provide the University of Illinois with an affidavit stating that you’ll file an application to become a permanent resident of the United States at your earliest opportunity? I'm a resident of a state that borders Illinois. Does the university offer tuition reciprocity? No, the University of Illinois does not offer in-state tuition to residents of states other than Illinois.
 Application;  How do I access the list of students who have applied from my school? The list of applicants from your high school can be found on our counselor website. You can also see the major to which they applied, their second-choice major, their current application status, and if they met the early action deadline. For students who intend to enroll, you can see who has sent official test scores and transcripts to our office. A student who has applied doesn't show on my list. What do I do? Please email your UIUC admissions counselor or contact our office directly. Do you accept letters of recommendation? No, we don't use or accept letters of recommendation. What is a letter of explanation, and when is it necessary to send one? Counselors have access to both a School Explanation Form and a Student Explanation Form to submit additional information to our office. These forms can be submitted through the counselor website. You should submit the School Explanation Form to explain any school-wide changes that impact most or all applicants from your school and aren't included in your high school profile. Examples include changes in grading scale, changes resulting from COVID-19, new school programs, etc. This form will be attached to all applicants from your high school. You should submit the Student Explanation Form in situations where students aren't comfortable providing us information about themselves, including information about extenuating or unusual circumstances that may have impacted their academic record and/or if you feel it's important for the admissions review committee to hear your perspective of the events. How do I submit a fee waiver for a student? You can submit a fee waiver through the counselor website (our preferred method) once a student has applied. The waiver is automatically matched with the student's application. The fee waiver form can also be emailed, mailed, or faxed to our office. Please submit only one form per student. What information should be listed on my high school profile? We recommend you include information about grading scales, advanced-level coursework that is available (including listing the AP courses offered), size and demographics of the school and of the senior-year class, and any other unique or unusual information about your school, including information you feel is important for the admissions review committee to know. Profiles can be uploaded through the counselor website, emailed directly to your UIUC admissions counselor, or sent to our general email account.
